Restyle Tutorial script (#3322)
ElektraInitiative/libelektra: doc/TUTORIAL_SCRIPT.md

# Script

```shell script
docker run -it elektra/elektra

# Let's map the content of a hello.js file to Elektra's configuration in /hello
sudo kdb mount hello.js /hello json

# Set a value and retrieve it
kdb set user/hello/hello/world "Hello World"
kdb get user/hello/hello/world

> # You can also see where the file is located from Elektra

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Elektra writes to normal configuration files but where is the file?
```

kdb file user/hello/hello/world

# You can edit the file and see what Elektra wrote
vi /home/elektra/.config/hello.js
>> Edit file to say "Hello World from File!"

# Getting the value again ...
kdb get user/hello/hello/world

> # You can also use Elektra's editor which additionally validates the file content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# You can also use Elektra's editor which validates the file content
```

kdb editor user/hello ini
>> Edit file to say "Hello World from INI via kdb editor!"
kdb get user/hello/hello/world

# Elektra can export to various file formats
kdb export user/hello
kdb export user/hello yaml

# You can search for plugins too

> kdb plugin-list

Reviewer: Also use `kdb plugin-list storage`

kdb export user/hello tcl

# Let's clean up our environment before we proceed
kdb rm user/hello/hello/world

# Removing the only entry also removed the whole file
cat /home/elektra/.config/hello.ini

# Remove the mountpoint too
sudo kdb umount /hello

# Let's see how configuration validation works
# First let's write a specification file
vi specification.ini
>> []
>> mountpoint = specification.ini
>> [timeout]
>> check/range = 0-100

> # Let's integrate the specification into the backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Let's integrate the specification into Elektra
```

> # The 'ni' plugin can be used to parse INI files into Elektra

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The 'ni' plugin can be used to parse INI files for specifications
```

Make some meta-get meta-ls so that people see the difference.

sudo kdb mount /home/elektra/specification.ini spec/validation ni

> # Let's active the configuration validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Let's active the configuration validation for this specification
```

sudo kdb spec-mount /validation

# Now let's see how it works
kdb set /validation/timeout 500

# Alright, but what if you really want a value of 500?

> kdb editor spec/validation ni

Reviewer: use meta-set here

> edit range to 1000

kdb set /validation/timeout 500

> 

Reviewer: Now use `kdb editor` to add another entry with `ipaddr`, and show validation again.

# Validation is already built in into Elektra's hosts plugin. It allows you to add new entries to /etc/hosts
sudo kdb mount --with-recommends /etc/hosts system/hosts hosts -R wresolver
# wresolver doesn't do atomic updates, which is needed because /etc/hosts is a mountpoint in docker

> # lets see what the localhost IP is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Let's see what the localhost IP is
```

> sudo kdb get system/hosts/ipv4/localhost

Reviewer: For get you do not need sudo.

```suggestion
kdb get system/hosts/ipv4/localhost
```

# What a surprise
# Let's add some nonsense IP
sudo kdb set system/hosts/ipv4/my 88.198.134.1777
# And now lets add a correct IP
sudo kdb set system/hosts/ipv4/my 8.8.8.8
# Does that really work?
sudo ping my

> 

Reviewer: Also cat /etc/hosts here.

> # Don't forget the cleanup

Reviewer: Again explain all steps.
